README.md, before:


<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

# uklakes <img src="man/figures/logo.png" align="right" height="139" alt="" />

<!-- badges: start -->
<!-- badges: end -->

The uklakes package allows you to retrieve a summary of the lake
information from the [UK CEH Lake Portal](https://uklakes.ceh.ac.uk/)
for a lake or series of lakes, based on the lakeid number. It does this
by responsibly webscraping the information (using the [polite
package](https://cran.r-project.org/package=polite)) from the webpage of
each lake.

You can also search for lakeid values based on strings in the lake name
to determine the lakeids to search for.

Information on the general physical characteristics, typology, chemistry
and connectivity metrics are retrieved. Biology and Land cover
information are not. For details of the information available, see the
[UK Lakes Portal Website](https://uklakes.ceh.ac.uk/).

Use of the package implies acceptance of the Terms of Use available
[here](https://www.ceh.ac.uk/terms-of-use).

## Installation

You can install the current version of uklakes from
[GitHub](https://github.com/) with:

``` r
# install.packages("pak")
pak::pak("robbriers/uklakes")
```

## Details of use

There are two functions in the package.

The `search_lakes` function allows you to search for the lakeid numbers
for lakes matching (partial or full matches, case sensitive) a string
provided.

``` r
library(uklakes)
search_lakes("Tarn")
# 140 Tarns in the portal database

search_lakes("Leven")
# two Loch Levens and one Loch of Levenwick
```

The second function (`get_lake_info`) retrieves the available
information for the lake or lakes specified (lakeid numbers). You can
retrieve a single lake (a single lakeid value), a series (lakeid numbers
separated by commas), a sequence of lakeids (specified in the normal R
sequence manner, i.e. 45:48), a vector of lakeids (either as a
standalone vector or a column of a df e.g. the lakeid column from the
output of search_lakes or a combination of these. See examples below.

``` r
# Loch Katrine
get_lake_info(24447)

# some small lakes in Shetland
get_lake_info(4, 6, 9)

# a series of small lakes in Shetland
get_lake_info(1232:1238)

# the first 5 Tarns in the database
tarns <- search_lakes("Tarn")
get_lake_info(tarns$lakeid[1:5])
```

The information is obtained by responsibly webscraping the lake
information webpages. The package respects the rate limit and repeat
request values specified by the robots.txt file of the UK CEH Lakes
Portal pages (currently 1 request per 5 seconds and maximum of 3
attempts) and reports progress through the console. Any lakes that it
fails to retrieve (either through incorrect lakeids or other reasons)
are reported at the end of the process.

The resultant output will have a different number of columns depending
on what information is available for the lakes specified, giving NA
values for those columns where the data is absent.

Commit message:

fixing errors in readme, changing lakeid to wbid to be consistent with website. Closes #3

README.md, after:


<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

# uklakes <img src="man/figures/logo.png" align="right" height="139" alt="" />

<!-- badges: start -->
<!-- badges: end -->

The uklakes package allows you to retrieve a summary of the lake
information from the [UK CEH Lake Portal](https://uklakes.ceh.ac.uk/)
for a lake or series of lakes, based on the lake wbid number. It does
this by responsibly webscraping the information (using the [polite
package](https://cran.r-project.org/package=polite)) from the webpage of
each lake.

You can also search for lake wbid values based on strings in the lake
name to determine the wbids to search for.

Information on the general physical characteristics, typology, chemistry
and connectivity metrics are retrieved. Biology and Land cover
information are not. For details of the information available, see the
[UK Lakes Portal Website](https://uklakes.ceh.ac.uk/).

Use of the package implies acceptance of the Terms of Use available
[here](https://www.ceh.ac.uk/terms-of-use).

## Installation

You can install the current version of uklakes from
[GitHub](https://github.com/) with:

``` r
# install.packages("pak")
pak::pak("robbriers/uklakes")
```

## Details of use

There are two functions in the package.

The `search_lakes` function allows you to search for the lake wbid
numbers for lakes matching (partial or full matches, case sensitive) a
string provided.

``` r
library(uklakes)
search_lakes("Tarn")
# 140 Tarns in the portal database

search_lakes("Leven")
# two Loch Levens and one Loch of Levenwick
```

The second function (`get_lake_info`) retrieves the available
information for the lake or lakes specified (wbid numbers). You can
retrieve a single lake (a single wbid value), a series (wbid numbers
separated by commas), a sequence of wbids (specified in the normal R
sequence manner, i.e. 45:48), a vector of wbids (either as a standalone
vector or a column of a df e.g. the wbid column from the output of
search_lakes or a combination of these. See examples below.

``` r
# Loch Lomond
get_lake_info(24447)

# some small lakes in Shetland
get_lake_info(4, 6, 9)

# a series of small lakes in Shetland
get_lake_info(1232:1238)

# the first 5 Tarns in the database
tarns <- search_lakes("Tarn")
get_lake_info(tarns$lakeid[1:5])
```

The information is obtained by responsibly webscraping the lake
information webpages. The package respects the rate limit and repeat
request values specified by the robots.txt file of the UK CEH Lakes
Portal pages (currently 1 request per 5 seconds and maximum of 3
attempts) and reports progress through the console. Any lakes that it
fails to retrieve (either through incorrect wbids or other reasons) are
reported at the end of the process.

The resultant output will have a different number of columns depending
on what information is available for the lakes specified, giving NA
values for those columns where the data is absent.
